---
title: Advent of Cyber 2023
date: 2023-12-04 00:00:00 +0800
categories: [IT, Security]
tags: [it, security, cybersecurity, aoc2023]
---

> 💡 Visit the **TryHackMe's Advent of Cyber** room [here](https://tryhackme.com/room/adventofcyber2023)


## [Day 1] Machine learning Chatbot, tell me, if you're really safe?

This is the Day 1 of Advent of Cyber 2023 by TryHackME which covers the following Learning Objectives. 

**Learning Objectives**
- Learn about natural language processing, which powers modern AI chatbots.
- Learn about prompt injection attacks and the common ways to carry them out.
- Learn how to defend against prompt injection attacks.

### **What Is Natural Language Processing (NLP)?**
>
> **Natural language processing (NLP)** is a branch of **artificial intelligence (AI)** that enables computers to comprehend, generate, and manipulate human language. Natural language processing has the ability to interrogate the data with natural language text or voice. This is also called “language in.” Most consumers have probably interacted with NLP without realizing it. For instance, NLP is the core technology behind virtual assistants, such as the Oracle Digital Assistant (ODA), Siri, Cortana, or Alexa. When we ask questions of these virtual assistants, NLP is what enables them to not only understand the user’s request, but to also respond in natural language. NLP applies both to written text and speech, and can be applied to all human languages. Other examples of tools powered by NLP include web search, email spam filtering, automatic translation of text or speech, document summarization, sentiment analysis, and grammar/spell checking. For example, some email programs can automatically suggest an appropriate reply to a message based on its content—these programs use NLP to read, analyze, and respond to your message.
>
>Source: [Oracle: What is NLP?](https://www.oracle.com/ph/artificial-intelligence/what-is-natural-language-processing/)

### **What is Prompt Injection?**
>
> Prompt injection is a new type of vulnerability that impacts Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Machine Learning (ML) models centered on prompt based learning. Prompts are the instructions that a user provides to the AI, and the inputs the user provides to the AI affect the response generated by it.
>
> Similar to SQL injections, a user can "inject" malicious instructions into the prompt. The prompt injection then influences the AI's output and makes it display inaccurate or incorrect results. In some cases, these results may disclose sensitive information, provide information that can be used for malicious purposes, and more.
> 
> Source: [RedSentry: What is Prompt Injection?](https://www.redsentry.com/blog/what-is-prompt-injection)

#### Notable Resources
[OWASP Top 10 for Large Language Model Applications](https://owasp.org/www-project-top-10-for-large-language-model-applications//)


## [Day 2] Log analysis O Data, All Ye Faithful

This is the Day 2 of Advent of Cyber 2023 by TryHackME
There are new data in here, and I wanted to see if this will be reflected on Github pages with an indicator that the post has been updated. Hopefully it is.